KEYS - Candidate Key, Super Key, Composite Key, Natural Key, Surrogate Key, Minimal 

Explanation
Primary Key (student_id):

Definition: The chosen candidate key that uniquely identifies each row and does not allow NULLs.
Here, student_id is minimal and uniquely identifies each row.

Candidate Key (email or phone):

Definition: A minimal set of column(s) that uniquely identifies a row.
In this table, both email and phone are candidate keys because each one, on its own, is unique and minimal.

Super Key (student_id, phone):

Definition: Any set of one or more columns that uniquely identifies a row.
Although student_id alone is enough, the combination (student_id, phone) is also a super key because it still uniquely identifies a row.
Note: This combination is not minimal (because phone is extra), so it is not a candidate key.

Composite Key:

Definition: A key that consists of two or more columns.
The combination (student_id, phone) is a composite key because it involves more than one column. However, in this case, it’s only an example of a composite super key, not a 
composite candidate key, since student_id alone is sufficient.

Example 

CREATE TABLE Enrollment (
    student_id INT NOT NULL,
    course_id INT NOT NULL,
    enrollment_date DATE,
	course_name varchar(100),
	

	
    CONSTRAINT pk_enrollment PRIMARY KEY (student_id, course_id)
);


    CONSTRAINT pk_enrollment PRIMARY KEY (student_id)  
    CONSTRAINT pk_enrollment PRIMARY KEY (student_id, course_id)
    CONSTRAINT pk_enrollment PRIMARY KEY (student_id, course_id, course_name)

1. Natural Key
A natural key is a real-world, meaningful piece of data (or combination of columns) that already uniquely identifies a record.

Examples:

A Social Security Number (SSN) in the U.S. (if each person has a unique SSN).
An email address if each user must have a unique email.
A product serial number that is truly unique for each product.

2. Surrogate Key
A surrogate key is a synthetic or artificial key added to a table just to uniquely identify each row. It typically has no meaning in the real world; it’s there only for the database’s sake.

Examples:

An auto-increment integer column like id.
A UUID (a universally unique identifier) column.
Any system-generated unique value.



Summary 
Natural Key: Real data with business meaning, used as an identifier.
Surrogate Key: Artificial (often numeric) identifier, stable and system-generated.

Example 

CREATE TABLE dim_customer (
    customer_key INT AUTO_INCREMENT ,         -- Surrogate Key (unique for each version of the customer record)
    aadhar_number INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,   -- Natural Key (unique identifier for the customer)
    customer_name VARCHAR(100),
    city VARCHAR(100),
    effective_date DATE,              -- Date this record version became active
    end_date DATE,                    -- Date this record version ended
    is_current BOOLEAN                -- Flag to indicate the current active record
);

Minimal
---------
In this context, minimal means that the set of columns (attributes) chosen to uniquely identify a row contains no unnecessary parts—if you remove any column from that set, 
it would no longer uniquely identify the row.

Breaking It Down with an Example
Imagine a table with columns A, B, and C where:

The combination (A, B, C) uniquely identifies each row.
However, if it turns out that (A, B) alone is enough to uniquely identify each row, then (A, B, C) is not minimal because C is extra.
Thus, the minimal key here is (A, B) since you cannot remove A or B without losing the ability to uniquely identify the row. This minimal set is what we call a candidate key.

One-Line Definition Recap
Minimal (in this context): A set of columns that is just sufficient to uniquely identify a row—removing any column would break this uniqueness.
